So, I want to talk a little bit about
something called a lambda expression or
lambda function, they're basically little
short-form functions that you can define.
And the implications of this are really
apparent when you get to when we get to
talking about LIQN (Language Integrated Query).
So, this is an example
of a lambda function.
So essentially what you've this is, it's
basically a shorthand for defining a very,
very tiny function.
So, I basically say that I am defining a
function that takes in two parameters and
returns those parameters added together.
And assuming that you declare
it as a Func,
which I'll talk about that in a second.
It is functionally equivalent to this
right here, but it saves a lot of words.
It saves a lot of keystrokes.
So, this is referred to
as a I mentioned that,
this is a function that is a Func of,
of, of.
And so this is a specialized type
that's used in a lot of the parts of
the .NET core libraries to define
a function that has a specific shape.
So for instance, I can take this and
I can say Func
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And
then set it to add.
Oops, I did not copy paste it.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Boom,
boom, perfect.
And what I've done is I've defined
a function in line inside of a variable,
which looks a little weird.
I've defined a function add that
takes in one two arguments,
the first one being an int, the second one
being an int, and it returns an int, okay?
So it's a little bit of a funky syntax,
just wait, gets better.
This is functionally equivalent
to this function right here, but
everything besides this weird syntax here,
everything to the right looks
like it's saving a little space.
So this somebody talked about,
asked about, earlier, about callbacks.
And basically, and
my interpretation of that was,
what about taking in functions as
arguments inside of our methods.
So that's something that
is a core part of .NET.
It's something that you do a lot of,
especially when you're
operating on collections.
The important thing to note is that,
we don't have to be verbose when
we define the shape of a function
if we know what that function is
supposed to look like ahead of time.
And that'll be apparent
in the next section.
So two different types of functions.
There's func, AKA a function that returns
a value, and then there's action.
An action is something that
doesn't return a value.
So you can have, for
instance, let me delete this.
Let me do elete this,
you can have an action.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That
doesn't return anything.
That is what an action is.
It's a function that returns void,
it doesn't do anything.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: doesSomething =,
and
then you can say an empty
set of parameters.
Because we don't have any goes into and
then we could just Console.WriteLine and
just say hi or something,
call a function or do some kind of thing.
But this isn't returning a value because
Console.WriteLine doesn't return a value.
However, this because we know
that this is a func of that
returns an int the return
statement is implied.
So kind of interesting,
little bit different syntax.
You could also define actions
that take parameters, so
you could say write, and then you
could say, Console.WriteLine.
This is a this is a Console.WriteLine
that takes in a string and doesn't return.
Return anything is an action of string,
aka,
string is the only
argument to this function.
So, this does have the shape of
the action of string function, and you
can call it just like any other function,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Which
is pretty cool.
We're gonna run it.
And we're gonna see that our
test string does get returned.
My main point in showing you all of
this is to show you that there is
alternate syntaxes for
declaring functions.
Sometimes you don't want to
declare a whole function for
a particular behavior property.
It'll make a lot more sense when we get
to when we get to the next section.
So one one thing about lambda
functions that they have one
property is that they close,
their closures.
They close over values
outside of their scope.
So in this case,
we have a counter that we've
declared outside the scope
of our function.
And this counter is still
holding this function is still
holding this counter in memory,
even though the scope of
this function does not
declare counter directly.
So this is a really important property
because it means that this can keep
track of values that exist outside of it
as long as you refer to those values.
It's more of a kind of a warning or
a behavior.
In practice, you don't have to
close over functions too often,
unless you're declaring
something like a local function,
which is a function that's declared
inside of a function, right?
Like this void, IncrementCounter,
counter++, right?
You can do that,
it's called a local function.
This also closes over the counter
variable, and that just means to say that
this function has access to it and
it doesn't get a new copy.
It gets the copy of counter
as it exists today,
even if you call function
far outside of the scope.
If you passed this function to another
method to be called, it will get called.